tools/lint/docs/linters/eslint-plugin-mozilla.rst, before:

=====================
Mozilla ESLint Plugin
=====================

Environments
============

These environments are available by specifying a comment at the top of the file,
e.g.

   /* eslint-env mozilla/chrome-worker */

There are also built-in ESLint environments available as well:
http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring#specifying-environments

browser-window
--------------

Defines the environment for scripts that are in the main browser.xul scope.

places-overlay
--------------

Defines the environment for scripts that are in a scope where placesOverlay.xul
is included.

chrome-worker
-------------

Defines the environment for chrome workers. This differs from normal workers by
the fact that `ctypes` can be accessed as well.

frame-script
------------

Defines the environment for frame scripts.

Rules
=====

avoid-removeChild
-----------------

Rejects using element.parentNode.removeChild(element) when element.remove()
can be used instead.

avoid-nsISupportsString-preferences
-----------------------------------

Rejects using getComplexValue and setComplexValue with nsISupportsString.

balanced-listeners
------------------

Checks that for every occurence of 'addEventListener' or 'on' there is an
occurence of 'removeEventListener' or 'off' with the same event name.


import-globals
--------------

Checks the filename of imported files e.g. ``Cu.import("some/path/Blah.jsm")``
adds Blah to the global scope.

Note: uses modules.json for a list of globals listed in each file.


import-globals-from
-------------------

Parses a file for globals defined in various unique Mozilla ways.

When a "import-globals-from <path>" comment is found in a file, then all globals
from the file at <path> will be imported in the current scope. This will also
operate recursively.

This is useful for scripts that are loaded as <script> tag in a window and rely
on each other's globals.

If <path> is a relative path, then it must be relative to the file being
checked by the rule.


import-headjs-globals
---------------------

Import globals from head.js and from any files that were imported by
head.js (as far as we can correctly resolve the path).

The following file import patterns are supported:

-  ``Services.scriptloader.loadSubScript(path)``
-  ``loader.loadSubScript(path)``
-  ``loadSubScript(path)``
-  ``loadHelperScript(path)``
-  ``import-globals-from path``

If path does not exist because it is generated e.g.
``testdir + "/somefile.js"`` we do our best to resolve it.

The following patterns are supported:

-  ``Cu.import("resource://devtools/client/shared/widgets/ViewHelpers.jsm");``
-  ``loader.lazyImporter(this, "name1");``
-  ``loader.lazyRequireGetter(this, "name2"``
-  ``loader.lazyServiceGetter(this, "name3"``
-  ``XPCOMUtils.defineLazyModuleGetter(this, "setNamedTimeout", ...)``
-  ``loader.lazyGetter(this, "toolboxStrings"``
-  ``XPCOMUtils.defineLazyGetter(this, "clipboardHelper"``


mark-test-function-used
-----------------------

Simply marks `test` (the test method) or `run_test` as used when in mochitests
or xpcshell tests respectively. This avoids ESLint telling us that the function
is never called.


no-aArgs
--------

Checks that function argument names don't start with lowercase 'a' followed by
a capital letter. This is to prevent the use of Hungarian notation whereby the
first letter is a prefix that indicates the type or intended use of a variable.


no-cpows-in-tests
-----------------

This rule checks if the file is a browser mochitest and, if so, checks for
possible CPOW usage by checking for the following strings:

- "gBrowser.contentWindow"
- "gBrowser.contentDocument"
- "gBrowser.selectedBrowser.contentWindow"
- "browser.contentDocument"
- "window.content"
- "content"
- "content."

Note: These are string matches so we will miss situations where the parent
object is assigned to another variable e.g.::

   var b = gBrowser;
   b.content // Would not be detected as a CPOW.


no-single-arg-cu-import
-----------------------

Rejects calls to "Cu.import" that do not supply a second argument (meaning they
add the exported properties into global scope).


no-import-into-var-and-global
-----------------------------

Reject use of ``Cu.import`` (or ``Components.utils.import``) where it attempts to
import into a var and into the global scope at the same time, e.g.

``var foo = Cu.import("path.jsm", this);``

This is considered bad practice as it is confusing as to what is actually being
imported.

no-useless-parameters
---------------------

Reject common XPCOM methods called with useless optional parameters (eg.
``Services.io.newURI(url, null, null)``, or non-existent parameters (eg.
``Services.obs.removeObserver(name, observer, false)``).

no-useless-removeEventListener
------------------------------

Reject calls to removeEventListener where {once: true} could be used instead.

reject-importGlobalProperties
-----------------------------

Rejects calls to ``Cu.importGlobalProperties``.  Use of this function is
undesirable in some parts of the tree.


reject-some-requires
--------------------

This takes an option, a regular expression.  Invocations of
``require`` with a string literal argument are matched against this
regexp; and if it matches, the ``require`` use is flagged.


this-top-level-scope
--------------------

Treats top-level assignments like ``this.mumble = value`` as declaring a global.

Note: These are string matches so we will miss situations where the parent
object is assigned to another variable e.g.::

   var b = gBrowser;
   b.content // Would not be detected as a CPOW.

use-default-preference-values
---------------

Require providing a second parameter to get*Pref methods instead of
using a try/catch block.

use-ownerGlobal
---------------

Require .ownerGlobal instead of .ownerDocument.defaultView.


var-only-at-top-level
---------------------

Marks all var declarations that are not at the top level invalid.


Example
=======

+-------+-----------------------+
| Possible values for all rules |
+-------+-----------------------+
| Value | Meaning               |
+-------+-----------------------+
| 0     | Deactivated           |
+-------+-----------------------+
| 1     | Warning               |
+-------+-----------------------+
| 2     | Error                 |
+-------+-----------------------+

Example configuration::

   "rules": {
     "mozilla/balanced-listeners": 2,
     "mozilla/mark-test-function-used": 1,
     "mozilla/var-only-at-top-level": 1,
     "mozilla/no-cpows-in-tests": 1,
   }

Running Tests
=============

The rules have some self tests (see bug 1219152), these can be run via:

```
cd tools/lint/eslint/eslint-plugin-mozilla
npm run test
```

(assuming `./mach eslint --setup` has already been run).

Commit message:

Bug 1352969 - Improve ESLint environment browser-window globals list, and automatically inject it into browser-window scripts. r=mossop
MozReview-Commit-ID: 3lv0K1unAc

tools/lint/docs/linters/eslint-plugin-mozilla.rst, after:

=====================
Mozilla ESLint Plugin
=====================

Environments
============

These environments are available by specifying a comment at the top of the file,
e.g.

   /* eslint-env mozilla/chrome-worker */

There are also built-in ESLint environments available as well:
http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring#specifying-environments

browser-window
--------------

Defines the environment for scripts that are in the main browser.xul scope (
note: includes the places-overlay environment).

places-overlay
--------------

Defines the environment for scripts that are in a scope where placesOverlay.xul
is included.

chrome-worker
-------------

Defines the environment for chrome workers. This differs from normal workers by
the fact that `ctypes` can be accessed as well.

frame-script
------------

Defines the environment for frame scripts.

Rules
=====

avoid-removeChild
-----------------

Rejects using element.parentNode.removeChild(element) when element.remove()
can be used instead.

avoid-nsISupportsString-preferences
-----------------------------------

Rejects using getComplexValue and setComplexValue with nsISupportsString.

balanced-listeners
------------------

Checks that for every occurence of 'addEventListener' or 'on' there is an
occurence of 'removeEventListener' or 'off' with the same event name.

import-browser-window-globals
-----------------------------

For scripts included in browser-window, this will automatically inject the
browser-window global scopes into the file.

import-globals
--------------

Checks the filename of imported files e.g. ``Cu.import("some/path/Blah.jsm")``
adds Blah to the global scope.

Note: uses modules.json for a list of globals listed in each file.


import-globals-from
-------------------

Parses a file for globals defined in various unique Mozilla ways.

When a "import-globals-from <path>" comment is found in a file, then all globals
from the file at <path> will be imported in the current scope. This will also
operate recursively.

This is useful for scripts that are loaded as <script> tag in a window and rely
on each other's globals.

If <path> is a relative path, then it must be relative to the file being
checked by the rule.


import-headjs-globals
---------------------

Import globals from head.js and from any files that were imported by
head.js (as far as we can correctly resolve the path).

The following file import patterns are supported:

-  ``Services.scriptloader.loadSubScript(path)``
-  ``loader.loadSubScript(path)``
-  ``loadSubScript(path)``
-  ``loadHelperScript(path)``
-  ``import-globals-from path``

If path does not exist because it is generated e.g.
``testdir + "/somefile.js"`` we do our best to resolve it.

The following patterns are supported:

-  ``Cu.import("resource://devtools/client/shared/widgets/ViewHelpers.jsm");``
-  ``loader.lazyImporter(this, "name1");``
-  ``loader.lazyRequireGetter(this, "name2"``
-  ``loader.lazyServiceGetter(this, "name3"``
-  ``XPCOMUtils.defineLazyModuleGetter(this, "setNamedTimeout", ...)``
-  ``loader.lazyGetter(this, "toolboxStrings"``
-  ``XPCOMUtils.defineLazyGetter(this, "clipboardHelper"``


mark-test-function-used
-----------------------

Simply marks `test` (the test method) or `run_test` as used when in mochitests
or xpcshell tests respectively. This avoids ESLint telling us that the function
is never called.


no-aArgs
--------

Checks that function argument names don't start with lowercase 'a' followed by
a capital letter. This is to prevent the use of Hungarian notation whereby the
first letter is a prefix that indicates the type or intended use of a variable.


no-cpows-in-tests
-----------------

This rule checks if the file is a browser mochitest and, if so, checks for
possible CPOW usage by checking for the following strings:

- "gBrowser.contentWindow"
- "gBrowser.contentDocument"
- "gBrowser.selectedBrowser.contentWindow"
- "browser.contentDocument"
- "window.content"
- "content"
- "content."

Note: These are string matches so we will miss situations where the parent
object is assigned to another variable e.g.::

   var b = gBrowser;
   b.content // Would not be detected as a CPOW.


no-single-arg-cu-import
-----------------------

Rejects calls to "Cu.import" that do not supply a second argument (meaning they
add the exported properties into global scope).


no-import-into-var-and-global
-----------------------------

Reject use of ``Cu.import`` (or ``Components.utils.import``) where it attempts to
import into a var and into the global scope at the same time, e.g.

``var foo = Cu.import("path.jsm", this);``

This is considered bad practice as it is confusing as to what is actually being
imported.

no-useless-parameters
---------------------

Reject common XPCOM methods called with useless optional parameters (eg.
``Services.io.newURI(url, null, null)``, or non-existent parameters (eg.
``Services.obs.removeObserver(name, observer, false)``).

no-useless-removeEventListener
------------------------------

Reject calls to removeEventListener where {once: true} could be used instead.

reject-importGlobalProperties
-----------------------------

Rejects calls to ``Cu.importGlobalProperties``.  Use of this function is
undesirable in some parts of the tree.


reject-some-requires
--------------------

This takes an option, a regular expression.  Invocations of
``require`` with a string literal argument are matched against this
regexp; and if it matches, the ``require`` use is flagged.


this-top-level-scope
--------------------

Treats top-level assignments like ``this.mumble = value`` as declaring a global.

Note: These are string matches so we will miss situations where the parent
object is assigned to another variable e.g.::

   var b = gBrowser;
   b.content // Would not be detected as a CPOW.

use-default-preference-values
---------------

Require providing a second parameter to get*Pref methods instead of
using a try/catch block.

use-ownerGlobal
---------------

Require .ownerGlobal instead of .ownerDocument.defaultView.


var-only-at-top-level
---------------------

Marks all var declarations that are not at the top level invalid.


Example
=======

+-------+-----------------------+
| Possible values for all rules |
+-------+-----------------------+
| Value | Meaning               |
+-------+-----------------------+
| 0     | Deactivated           |
+-------+-----------------------+
| 1     | Warning               |
+-------+-----------------------+
| 2     | Error                 |
+-------+-----------------------+

Example configuration::

   "rules": {
     "mozilla/balanced-listeners": 2,
     "mozilla/mark-test-function-used": 1,
     "mozilla/var-only-at-top-level": 1,
     "mozilla/no-cpows-in-tests": 1,
   }

Running Tests
=============

The rules have some self tests (see bug 1219152), these can be run via:

```
cd tools/lint/eslint/eslint-plugin-mozilla
npm run test
```

(assuming `./mach eslint --setup` has already been run).
