taskcluster/docs/parameters.rst, before:

==========
Parameters
==========

Task-graph generation takes a collection of parameters as input, in the form of
a JSON or YAML file.

During decision-task processing, some of these parameters are supplied on the
command line or by environment variables.  The decision task helpfully produces
a full parameters file as one of its output artifacts.  The other ``mach
taskgraph`` commands can take this file as input.  This can be very helpful
when working on a change to the task graph.

When experimenting with local runs of the task-graph generation, it is always
best to find a recent decision task's ``parameters.yml`` file, and modify that
file if necessary, rather than starting from scratch.  This ensures you have a
complete set of parameters.

The properties of the parameters object are described here, divided rougly by
topic.

Push Information
----------------

``triggered_by``
   The event that precipitated this decision task; one of ``"nightly"`` or
   ``"push"``.

``base_repository``
   The repository from which to do an initial clone, utilizing any available
   caching.

``head_repository``
   The repository containing the changeset to be built.  This may differ from
   ``base_repository`` in cases where ``base_repository`` is likely to be cached
   and only a few additional commits are needed from ``head_repository``.

``head_rev``
   The revision to check out; this can be a short revision string

``head_ref``
   For Mercurial repositories, this is the same as ``head_rev``.  For
   git repositories, which do not allow pulling explicit revisions, this gives
   the symbolic ref containing ``head_rev`` that should be pulled from
   ``head_repository``.

``owner``
   Email address indicating the person who made the push.  Note that this
   value may be forged and *must not* be relied on for authentication.

``message``
   The commit message

``pushlog_id``
   The ID from the ``hg.mozilla.org`` pushlog

``pushdate``
   The timestamp of the push to the repository that triggered this decision
   task.  Expressed as an integer seconds since the UNIX epoch.

``build_date``
   The timestamp of the build date. Defaults to ``pushdate`` and falls back to present time of
   taskgraph invocation. Expressed as an integer seconds since the UNIX epoch.

``moz_build_date``
   A formatted timestamp of ``build_date``. Expressed as a string with the following
   format: %Y%m%d%H%M%S

Tree Information
----------------

``project``
   Another name for what may otherwise be called tree or branch or
   repository.  This is the unqualified name, such as ``mozilla-central`` or
   ``cedar``.

``level``
   The `SCM level
   <https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/commit/access-policy/>`_
   associated with this tree.  This dictates the names of resources used in the
   generated tasks, and those tasks will fail if it is incorrect.

Target Set
----------

The "target set" is the set of task labels which must be included in a task
graph.  The task graph generation process will include any tasks required by
those in the target set, recursively.  In a decision task, this set can be
specified programmatically using one of a variety of methods (e.g., parsing try
syntax or reading a project-specific configuration file).

``filters``
    List of filter functions (from ``taskcluster/taskgraph/filter_tasks.py``) to
    apply. This is usually defined internally, as filters are typically
    global.

``target_tasks_method``
    The method to use to determine the target task set.  This is the suffix of
    one of the functions in ``tascluster/taskgraph/target_tasks.py``.

``optimize_target_tasks``
   If true, then target tasks are eligible for optimization.

``include_nightly``
   If true, then nightly tasks are eligible for optimization.

Commit message:

bug 1344321 - enable run-on-projects for nightlies. r=dustin a=release
This patch enables `run-on-projects` to work appropriately for
nightly builds and tests.  Initially, we were setting an empty
`run-on-projects` for nightly `build_platform`s, then explicitly
targeting the platforms in nightly-specific `target_task_method`s.

Instead, this patch enables nightlies to `run-on-projects` everywhere,
but governs the use of nightlies by either the `include_nightly`
parameter, or the `--include-nightly` try option.  This lets us filter
nightly-related `target_task_method`s against `run-on-projects` without
losing all nightly tasks.

Then, enable spidermonkey tests by removing optimization from beta and
release.  This patch also enables everything then disables specific
tasks, rather than disabling everything and enabling specific tasks.
Since we're beginning with a `filter_for_project` call, we should be
able to reduce these if blocks to zero over time, if desired.

MozReview-Commit-ID: A9tolynaChF

taskcluster/docs/parameters.rst, after:

==========
Parameters
==========

Task-graph generation takes a collection of parameters as input, in the form of
a JSON or YAML file.

During decision-task processing, some of these parameters are supplied on the
command line or by environment variables.  The decision task helpfully produces
a full parameters file as one of its output artifacts.  The other ``mach
taskgraph`` commands can take this file as input.  This can be very helpful
when working on a change to the task graph.

When experimenting with local runs of the task-graph generation, it is always
best to find a recent decision task's ``parameters.yml`` file, and modify that
file if necessary, rather than starting from scratch.  This ensures you have a
complete set of parameters.

The properties of the parameters object are described here, divided rougly by
topic.

Push Information
----------------

``triggered_by``
   The event that precipitated this decision task; one of ``"nightly"`` or
   ``"push"``.

``base_repository``
   The repository from which to do an initial clone, utilizing any available
   caching.

``head_repository``
   The repository containing the changeset to be built.  This may differ from
   ``base_repository`` in cases where ``base_repository`` is likely to be cached
   and only a few additional commits are needed from ``head_repository``.

``head_rev``
   The revision to check out; this can be a short revision string

``head_ref``
   For Mercurial repositories, this is the same as ``head_rev``.  For
   git repositories, which do not allow pulling explicit revisions, this gives
   the symbolic ref containing ``head_rev`` that should be pulled from
   ``head_repository``.

``include_nightly``
   Include nightly builds and tests in the graph.

``owner``
   Email address indicating the person who made the push.  Note that this
   value may be forged and *must not* be relied on for authentication.

``message``
   The commit message

``pushlog_id``
   The ID from the ``hg.mozilla.org`` pushlog

``pushdate``
   The timestamp of the push to the repository that triggered this decision
   task.  Expressed as an integer seconds since the UNIX epoch.

``build_date``
   The timestamp of the build date. Defaults to ``pushdate`` and falls back to present time of
   taskgraph invocation. Expressed as an integer seconds since the UNIX epoch.

``moz_build_date``
   A formatted timestamp of ``build_date``. Expressed as a string with the following
   format: %Y%m%d%H%M%S

Tree Information
----------------

``project``
   Another name for what may otherwise be called tree or branch or
   repository.  This is the unqualified name, such as ``mozilla-central`` or
   ``cedar``.

``level``
   The `SCM level
   <https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/commit/access-policy/>`_
   associated with this tree.  This dictates the names of resources used in the
   generated tasks, and those tasks will fail if it is incorrect.

Target Set
----------

The "target set" is the set of task labels which must be included in a task
graph.  The task graph generation process will include any tasks required by
those in the target set, recursively.  In a decision task, this set can be
specified programmatically using one of a variety of methods (e.g., parsing try
syntax or reading a project-specific configuration file).

``filters``
    List of filter functions (from ``taskcluster/taskgraph/filter_tasks.py``) to
    apply. This is usually defined internally, as filters are typically
    global.

``target_tasks_method``
    The method to use to determine the target task set.  This is the suffix of
    one of the functions in ``tascluster/taskgraph/target_tasks.py``.

``optimize_target_tasks``
   If true, then target tasks are eligible for optimization.

``include_nightly``
   If true, then nightly tasks are eligible for optimization.
